Let's take a look at some of the commands we can issue.
So the first thing I'm going to do is just type the word docker.
And if I just hit enter or return here,
this is going to show all the different commands.
And you'll notice there's quite a few commands.
Now we're only going to focus on just the
essentials that we need to get started, but those are the command you can use.
And there's a lot you can do with images and containers
and a bunch of other stuff as well.
Now from here, let's learn how we can pull an image off of Docker Hub.
And we talked about Docker Hub a little bit earlier,
and if you go to hub.docker.com, you can get to it.
Now you can certainly log in and create an account and all that.
But if we just come up to the search, I'm going to type hello‑world,
and this'll pull up the hello‑world image.
And we'll click on it,
and you'll notice there's this Docker client pull command that we can issue.
So I can actually just copy that from here,
get information if I'd like to read up on it.
But we'll go on back, and I can just paste this in.
So let me clear this and we'll just paste docker pull and the name of the image.
Now this is going to pull down the layered file system,
it's called This is the actual image itself,
very small, you can see.
And so now I have this image locally.
But how do we know if it's really there?
Did it work?
Well, the second command we're going to look at for Docker client is,
we can type the Docker client tool again,
and now I can say images.
And what this'll do is list all the images that I have installed.
And it looks like we now have one image.
Let me make this just a little bit bigger.
You can see it's hello‑world, we have the latest,
it assigns a unique ID to it, and it looks like it was created 11 weeks ago,
and it's very small, 960 bytes.
Now that's how easy it is to first off pull an image off of Docker Hub
and then actually see what images do we actually have?
Now I mentioned a couple times, an image on its own is not
ultimately that useful because we need to take that image and
actually get a running container.
And so what we can do from here is,
we can say docker run and then we can give the name of the image.
We're going to do hello‑world.
And this will now run the hello‑world image as a container,
and you can see all of this output.
And if you see this Hello Docker, then you did good.
It worked.
And so we now have a hello‑world container.
So we have an image that's sitting there.
We've now taken that image and made an instance of the container that's now,
it ran and then it actually stopped.
And so how do you know what containers that you have
available? So I can come in and type docker ps,
but let's see what we get here.
You'll notice nothing shows up, which I know the first time I saw this,
was a little bit confusing because I knew I had a container because
that's what the run command that we looked up here does.
So what's going on?
Well, docker ps, this command, only shows the running containers.
So how do we see all containers?
Well, we do ‑a, and that will tell the Docker client ps command,
I would like to list all containers.
And there we go.
So now we have the container ID, we have the image that was used for it,
we have, it's kind of wrapping here,
this is a sort of friendly name it comes up with if
you don't want to refer to this guy, we created about a minute ago,
and the status is it's Exited.
So this particular container right now is not up and running because this
container just outputs this log data you see up here,
and then it kind of stops.
So that's a really important little add‑on to the ps command
for a command line switch to do docker ps ‑a.
Because again, if you don't do that, you're not going to see it in this case.
Now, that's not that useful of an image or a container,
so how do we get rid of these now?
That's great, we see it works, but now I'll probably never, ever use it again.
So what I'm going to do is,
I'm going to come in and say remove and that's remove container.
And then we have the container ID right here.
And then we also have a little alias,
but I just normally type the first few characters.
So I'm going to do 59f. So we'll do 59f, I'm going to hit Enter.
Now When I do docker ps ‑a, you'll notice I don't have any containers left,
so we deleted it.
Now what about the images?
Let me get do a clear here.
Well, let's do docker images again.
Okay, It's still there.
We deleted the container, but we didn't get rid of the image.
So it's really similar to what we just did.
Its Docker rmi, and then, again,
we can take the image ID and just do the first few.
So in this one sense there's only one.
I'm just going to do 0a.
And there we go.
It just deleted the layered file system for that particular image.
So that's an example of how easy it is to use the Docker client
command line tools to get started with pulling an image,
viewing images,
and then taking those images and converting them into running containers.
So now that we've seen the basic commands for Docker client,
let's pull down the Nginx image that I showed,
if you watched the Kitematic demo earlier in the course,
and see how we can get that actually running as well.
So if we go back up to Docker Hub and go to hello‑world
and I'll just kind of research on this.
We'll hit Enter there.
And you'll notice that there's quite a bit of things we can do.
There's a tutum hello‑world.
There's also a Kitematic one down here.
It looks like I'm not finding it immediately,
so we could actually search for Kitematic.
And there it is right there, so let's click on that.
And just to save a little bit of typing,
I'm going to go ahead and grab this pull command and just paste this
again into my Docker client terminal that we have here.
So we'll pace that in, and now this image will have a little bit more to it.
It's bigger than the last one,
so it'll take a moment to download but It's pretty quick,
and there we go.
We have it.
So there's docker pull again.
Now we can do docker images.
There it is.
So there's our Kitematic, it's the latest,
there's the unique ID it gives it, and it's about 6 months old,
it looks like.
So now we can actually start this image up and get it running.
And to do that we can, again,
do docker run and then give the actual name over here that we have of the image.
So I'm just going to copy that and paste it in.
Now this particular image, though, has a port that we need to set.
And so you can kind of think of it this way.
The image is going to become a running container.
Now ultimately what we have is a machine that hosts the container.
Well, the machine, as a port we're going to hit,
because you'll notice I already have an IP address
up here typed for the machine.
But we can also set the port the we're going to call on that machine.
Now when that gets called,
it's then going to call into the appropriate container, in this case,
the Nginx container, which is a reverse proxy type of tool.
We can also set a port inside of the Nginx.
Now,
normally Nginx is kind of a front‑end server that'll serve up static files and
forward more complex requests to back‑end servers, ASP.NET,
Node.js, and others.
And so normally, it's on port 80, if it's a kind of a public‑facing website.
So what I'm going to do is come into here,
and we're going to use a command line switch on run.
And I'm going to say that I would like to run this image but I
want to run it on port 80 for the machine,
and that's going to forward internally to port 80 in the container itself.
Now,
this is a really important one because we need to set what is
the port we're going to call on our actual machine and then
what's it going to call on this container that's going to get
created based on this image?
So let me go ahead and just hit return here,
Enter, and you'll notice this now started up my Nginx container,
in this case.
It converted from the image into the container.
So I'm going to come up here, and now if I hit the IP address for my machine,
we should see an Nginx output here, and there we go.
Now, this looks very, very similar to what we saw earlier,
if you watched the Kitematic demo, again,
because it's the same exact image.
It's just that we're now using the terminal here to actually
work with this particular image and container.
What I'm going to do from here is,
I can actually just start up a new kind of Bash tab here and I'm going to
go into the docker ps command that I showed you earlier.
And you'll notice that right off the bat,
because I didn't click on a Quickstart terminal,
I get this Cannot connect to Docker daemon.
Now, one way around this is,
I can close it and just open up a different Quickstart.
But let's go ahead and use what we learned earlier.
I'm going to do docker‑machine env, default is my machine,
and then I'm going to run this eval command.
Okay, so now let me try docker ps.
All right, now it works.
And you'll notice this command terminal is now tied to my default machine.
And again, I didn't have to do that.
I could've just clicked on the Docker Quickstart terminal here.
But that's a nice little thing.
So here we go.
We have the container ID, here's the image it's based on,
there's a little start.sh script that's run,
we started about a minute ago, and it looks like the status is up.
It's wrapping a little bit there,
but you'll notice status is up for about a minute or so,
it looks like.
Now, we can come into here and we can say docker stop,
and then we can actually list just a few of the digits here.
So I can just say docker stop 109.
And now this is going to go in and try to stop that particular running
container that we have going over in this tab right here.
And so we'll let this run just for a sec.
Okay, there we go.
Now let's do docker ps, and if it's stopped, it shouldn't show it.
All right, and it's empty.
So now we'll do docker ps ‑a, and there it is,
but you'll notice that the status is Exited.
So that's how easy it is to pull that down,
and then you now know how we can get rid of this as well.
Once it's stopped we can say docker remove and then
give it that same container ID.
So we'll just do 109, since that's a quick and easy way.
Okay, so now docker psa.
It's gone.
Let's go to docker images, and there's the image.
Notice the, again, image ID here.
So we can say docker remove image 385,
and that now deleted all the parts of the layered file system.
And there we go.
So now our container's gone and our images are gone.
And from a development standpoint, this is pretty awesome,
because now my machine is completely clean of this Nginx server.
I don't have to worry about other files sticking around because I
got rid of the actual image and the container.
Now compare that to manually installing different servers
and databases and things like that,
and I think you'll find that that's a pretty compelling thing
we can do in the development environment.
Because I don't know about you, I tend to like to keep my machine pretty clean.
So that's an example of some of these different Docker client commands that we can actually run in a Mac environment.